---
layout: project
title:  "A Revisit to Mexico"
author: Chen Peng
img: tb-mexico.jpg
galleryid: mexico 
---

<div class="col-lg-10 col-lg-offset-1 col-md-10 col-md-offset-1" style='text-align: justify;'>
<div class="grid">
<div class="grid-sizer"></div>
{% for gallery in site.data.galleries %}
  {% if gallery.id == page.galleryid %}
  {% for image in gallery.images %}
  <div class="grid-item">
  <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{{ gallery.imagefolder }}/{{ image.name }}" data-lightbox="gallery.id"
  data-title="{{ image.text }}">
    <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}{{ gallery.imagefolder }}/{{ image.thumb }}"> 
  </a>
  </div>
  {% endfor %}
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</div>

<br>
<br>

<h3>重遊墨西哥—旅行肖像計畫 | A Revisit to Mexico, Portrait Project</h3>

<p>有機會踏上陌生的國土，是一種莫大的幸運。像接受禮物一般，我們開闊眼界，收獲當地的人情與文化。滿載而歸的不僅是色彩繽紛的照片、玲瑯滿目的紀念品，還有說不完的故事、做不完的夢。只是，無論這片土地、這些人給予我們什麼，我們走了也就走了，而他們的日子照舊。</p>

<p>四年前，我第一次去墨西哥，就愛上了那裡的色彩、文化、與人，收穫滿滿地歸來，念念不忘。我一直在想，是不是我也能夠給這片土地、這些人一些禮物，作為報答。「重遊墨西哥— 旅行肖像計畫」就是一個回贈禮物的計畫。我在2015年末，前往墨西哥三週，沿著四年前的老路徑從墨西哥城、普埃普拉，一路到瓦哈卡、聖克里斯托瓦爾-德拉斯卡薩斯、猶加敦半島。在城市或小鎮的街道上、公園裡、教堂前的廣場上、或是咖啡店及路邊攤上，我為當地人（也有幾個旅行者）畫水彩肖像。我告訴他們，如果他們喜歡，就可以留下，當作是禮物。</p>

<p>感謝克里夫蘭藝術學院油畫系提供的Ted Frost Scholarship for Travel，使這個計畫可以實現。</p>


<p>Being able to travel to a foreign land is a precious gift. It opens our eyes,
and offers us the kindness from the locals. We bring home beautiful photos,
adorable souvenirs, wonderful stories, and colorful dreams. However, while we
leave with hands and hearts full, their lives remain the same.</p>

<p>Four years ago, I traveled to Mexico for a month. I fell in love with the
color, culture, and people there, and the memories accompanied me back home
along with all those gifts from the Mexicans. I was always thinking, whether
there would be a way for me to give something back. “Mexico Revisited-A
Traveling Portrait Project” is such a project about giving gifts to the people
and land in Mexico.  I revisited Mexico in the winter of 2015 for three weeks,
traveling along my previous path from Mexico City, Puebla, Cuetzalan, Oaxaca,
San Cristóbal de Las Casas, and all the way to Yucatán Peninsula. During the
trip, I asked locals and a few travelers if they would like their portraits
drawn for free. I encountered my “models” down the streets, at parks, at plazas
in front of churches, at coffee shops, or at their vendors. Sometimes I was also
asked to draw portraits for themselves or their families. For all the original
portraits, I asked them keep it as a gift, if they like it. </p>

<p>Thanks to Ted Frost '88 Scholarship for Travel from the Painting Department
at Cleveland Institute of Art, so that I am able to fulfill this project.</p>
</div>
